summary: 

Some NUS managing director called Mr Wong explained about the NUS and the fact that international students will be evaluated for scholarships during their admission process. Additionally he was emphasizing about the dynamic learning environment of NUS and that for aspiring entrepreneurs they can move abroad to universities that are officially partnered with NUS for one year exchange programs and learn from experienced entrepreneurs as a mentor. Furthermore, he also briefed the application process that it is better to apply at august, and he said grade are not the only thing u need for successful applicants. Besides scholarships and financial aid are available for international students now. Altho i did arrive late to his session so i missed out on the rest of his info

anyways about the session that came right after, another professor came forward and was speaking in more detail about the application process, success and rejection rate, reasons for that, and universities abroad. He showed an example of applying the wrong way. Firstly he was explaining about a student's profile, which lists all achievements of the student in question, academic and non-academic. This is fundamentally what universities will look at when deciding if to accept an applicant or not. Then he was yapping about 'engineering a profile' which he means as artificially creating a profile. Basically most students to get accepted in uni they do lots of activities just to impress the application office, or as he calls it: 'for the sake of it'. He strongly insists to engage in activities beyond the scope of what was being taught, and doing what you enjoy and are genuinely interested in. He also says people do mistake of choosing universities first and then structuring their profile to meet requirements of the university. Instead he reccomends choosing a problem in the real world to solve, and working to achieve that goal. For example if ur going genetic manipulation field of smthing or smthing, a problem to solve is to cure genetic diseases. This shows genuine interest towards the field. Also he says whatever side activities you want to take up that goes beyond the scope of the syllabus take it early becuz time is scarce.
anyways about the session that came right after, another professor came forward and was speaking in more detail about the application process, success and rejection rate, reasons for that, and universities abroad. He showed an example of applying the wrong way. Firstly he was explaining about a student's profile, which lists all achievements of the student in question, academic and non-academic. This is fundamentally what universities will look at when deciding if to accept an applicant or not. Then he was yapping about 'engineering a profile' which he means as artificially creating a profile. Basically most students to get accepted in uni they do lots of activities just to impress the application office, or as he calls it: 'for the sake of it'. He strongly insists to engage in activities beyond the scope of what was being taught, and doing what you enjoy and are genuinely interested in. He also says people do mistake of choosing universities first and then structuring their profile to meet requirements of the university. Instead he recommends choosing a problem in the real world to solve, and working to achieve that goal. For example if ur going genetic manipulation field of smthing or smthing, a problem to solve is to cure genetic diseases. This shows genuine interest towards the field. Also he says whatever side activities you want to take up that goes beyond the scope of the syllabus take it early becuz time is scarce. The most important thing is to take initiative and ownership, for example instead of joining a coding club, start a coding club.
The professor also emphasises about thinking carefully about what your skills are trying to convey towards your intrests, and that different universities with course in same subject do not look for the same quality.
He showed a student profile who's academics were as follows:
    44/45 IPDP Score
    IGCSE Maths topper
    AP 9/9 grade
    sm other stuff which i forgot
And for achievements were as follows:
    Scored well in multiple hackathons
    Started a coding club
    Organised programing competitions

And that same student applied for a Computer Science course at the University of Cambridge. Guess what was the outcome of his application?

he got rejected, cuz of stuff
he did get a happy ending cuz he then applied to the Imperial college of London in Computer Science and got accepted, cuz he had what the university was looking for.

oh ye according to statics shown in the presentation MIT is number 1 and Harvard is number 4, so enjoy